CHAPTER 4:
Medical Benefits Chart
(what's covered and what you pay)
SECTION 1 Understanding your out‑of‑pocket costs for covered services
The Medical Benefits Chart lists your covered services and shows how much you pay for each covered
service as a member of Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO‑POS). This section also gives information about
medical services that aren't covered and also explains limits on certain services.
Section 1.1 Out‑of‑pocket costs you may pay for covered services
Types of out‑of‑pocket costs you may pay for covered services include:
• Copayment: the fixed amount you pay each time you get certain medical services. You pay a
copayment at the time you get the medical service. (The Medical Benefits Chart tells you more about
your copayments.)
• Coinsurance: the percentage you pay of the total cost of certain medical services. You pay a
coinsurance at the time you get the medical service. (The Medical Benefits Chart tells you more
about your coinsurance.)
Most people who qualify for Medicaid or for the Qualified Medicare Beneficiary (QMB) program don’t pay
deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance. If you’re in one of these programs, be sure to show your proof of
Medicaid or QMB eligibility to your provider.
Section 1.2 What's the most you’ll pay for covered medical services?
Medicare Advantage Plans have limits on the total amount you have to pay out‑of‑pocket each year for
in‑network medical services covered by our plan. This limit is called the maximum out‑of‑pocket (MOOP)
amount for medical services. For calendar year 2026, the MOOP amount is $599.
The amounts you pay for copayments and coinsurance for in‑network covered services count toward this
maximum out‑of‑pocket amount. The amounts you pay for Part D prescription drugs don’t count toward
your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount. In addition, amounts you pay for some services don't count toward
your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount. These services are marked with an asterisk in the Medical Benefits
Chart. If you reach the maximum out‑of‑pocket amount of $599, you won’t have to pay any out‑of‑pocket
costs for the rest of the year for in‑network covered services. However, you must continue to pay the
Medicare Part B premium (unless your Part B premium is paid for you by Medicaid or another third party).
Section 1.3 Providers aren’t allowed to balance bill you
As a member of Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO‑POS), you have an important protection because you only
have to pay your cost‑sharing amount when you get services covered by our plan. Providers can’t bill you
for additional separate charges, called balance billing. This protection applies even if we pay the provider
less than the provider charges for a service and even if there’s a dispute and we don’t pay certain provider
charges.
Here’s how protection from balance billing works:
• If your cost sharing is a copayment (a set amount of dollars, for example, $15.00), you pay only that
amount for any covered services from a network provider.
• If your cost sharing is a coinsurance (a percentage of the total charges), you never pay more than
that percentage. However, your cost depends on which type of provider you see:
36 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
If you get covered services from a network provider, you pay the coinsurance percentage
○
multiplied by our plan’s reimbursement rate (this is set in the contract between the provider
and our plan).
If you get covered services from an out‑of‑network provider who participates with Medicare,
○
you pay the coinsurance percentage multiplied by the Medicare payment rate for participating
providers.
If you get covered services from an out‑of‑network provider who doesn’t participate with
○
Medicare, then you pay the coinsurance percentage multiplied by the Medicare payment rate
for non‑participating providers.
• If you think a provider has balance billed you, call Member Services at 1‑833‑570‑6670 (TTY users
call 711).
SECTION 2 The Medical Benefits Chart shows your medical benefits and costs
The Medical Benefits Chart on the next pages lists the services Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO‑POS) covers
and what you pay out‑of‑pocket for each service. (Part D drug coverage is covered in Chapter 5). The
services listed in the Medical Benefits Chart are covered only when these requirements are met:
• Your Medicare‑covered services must be provided according to Medicare coverage guidelines.
• Your services (including medical care, services, supplies, equipment, and Part B drugs) must be
medically necessary. Medically necessary means that the services, supplies, or drugs are needed
for the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of your medical condition and meet accepted standards
of medical practice.
• For new enrollees, your MA coordinated care plan must provide a minimum 90‑day transition
period, during which time the new MA plan may not require prior authorization for any active course
of treatment, even if the course of treatment was for a service that commenced with an
out‑of‑network provider.
• You get your care from a network provider. In most cases, care you get from an out‑of‑network
provider won’t be covered, unless it’s emergency or urgent care or unless our plan or a network
provider gave you a referral. This means you pay the provider in full for out‑of‑network services you
get.
• You have a primary care provider (a PCP) who is providing and overseeing your care. In most
situations, your PCP must give you approval in advance before you can see other providers in the
plan’s network. This is called giving you a referral.
• Some services listed in the Medical Benefits Chart are covered only if your doctor or other network
provider gets approval in advance (sometimes called prior authorization) from us. Covered services
that need approval in advance are marked by a note in the Medical Benefits Chart.
Other important things to know about our coverage:
• Like all Medicare health plans, we cover everything that Original Medicare covers. For some of these
benefits, you pay more in our plan than you would in Original Medicare. For others, you pay less. (To
learn more about the coverage and costs of Original Medicare, go to your Medicare & You 2026
handbook. View it online at Medicare.gov or ask for a copy by calling 1‑800‑MEDICARE
(1‑800‑633‑4227). TTY users call 1‑877‑486‑2048.)
• For preventive services covered at no cost under Original Medicare, we also cover those services at
no cost to you. However, if you’re also treated or monitored for an existing medical condition during
the visit when you get the preventive service, a copayment will apply for the care you got for the
existing medical condition.
• If Medicare adds coverage for any new services during 2026, either Medicare or our plan will cover
those services.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 37
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Important information regarding the services listed below in the Medical Benefits Chart:
If you receive services from: If your plan services include: You will pay:
A primary care provider (PCP) Copays only The highest single copay for all
or specialist and get more than services received.
one covered service during the
single visit: Copays and coinsurance The highest single copay for all
services and the coinsurance
A clinic visit cost share may apply amounts for each service.
based on the role of the attending
Coinsurance only The coinsurance amounts for all
provider (PCP or specialist).
services received.
If you receive services from: If your plan services include: You will pay:
An outpatient facility and get Copays only The highest single copay for all
more than one covered service services received.
during the single visit:
Copays and coinsurance The highest single copay for all
services and the coinsurance
amounts for each service.
Coinsurance only The coinsurance amounts for all
services received.
38 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
This apple shows preventive services in the Medical Benefits Chart.
Medical Benefits Chart
Covered Service What you pay
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Abdominal aortic aneurysm screening
deductible for members eligible for this
A one‑time screening ultrasound for people at risk. Our plan
preventive screening.
only covers this screening if you have certain risk factors and if
you get a referral for it from your physician, physician assistant,
nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist.
Acupuncture for chronic low back pain $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Covered services include: acupuncture visit.
Up to 12 visits in 90 days are covered under the following $0 copay for each additional
circumstances: non‑Medicare covered acupuncture
visit.
For the purpose of this benefit, chronic low back pain is defined
as:
• lasting 12 weeks or longer;
• nonspecific, in that it has no identifiable systemic cause
(i.e., not associated with metastatic, inflammatory,
infectious disease, etc.);
• not associated with surgery; and
• not associated with pregnancy.
An additional 8 sessions will be covered for patients
demonstrating an improvement. No more than 20 acupuncture
treatments may be administered annually.
Treatment must be discontinued if the patient is not improving
or is regressing.
Provider Requirements:
Physicians (as defined in 1861(r)(1) of the Social Security Act (the
Act)) may furnish acupuncture in accordance with applicable
state requirements.
Physician assistants (PAs), nurse practitioners (NPs)/clinical
nurse specialists (CNSs) (as identified in 1861(aa)(5) of the Act),
and auxiliary personnel may furnish acupuncture if they meet all
applicable state requirements and have:
• a master's or doctoral level degree in acupuncture or
Oriental Medicine from a school accredited by the
Accreditation Commission on Acupuncture and Oriental
Medicine (ACAOM); and,
• a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice
acupuncture in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e.,
Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 39
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Acupuncture for chronic low back pain (continued)
Auxiliary personnel furnishing acupuncture must be under the
appropriate level of supervision of a physician, PA, or NP/CNS
required by our regulations at 42 CFR §§ 410.26 and 410.27.
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer:
• Acupuncture services to treat conditions in addition to
chronic lower back pain: unlimited visits every year
We have teamed up with American Specialty Health® (ASH) to
provide your acupuncture coverage. Covered services
performed by a licensed acupuncturist include relief from:
• Musculoskeletal pain conditions
• Nausea from pregnancy
• Immediate post surgery pain
• Chemotherapy
An in‑network provider must determine medical necessity for
covered services. To locate a network provider, you may
contact Member Services at the phone number on your
member ID card or visit our online directory at aet.na/search. If
you choose to use a provider outside of the network, the
services you receive will not be covered.
Acupuncture services are not covered for the following: weight
loss, sexual dysfunction, mental conditions such as depression,
smoking cessation, drug and alcohol addiction, and any other
conditions that do not meet coverage criteria.
*Amounts you pay for additional acupuncture services do not
apply to your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
Aetna® Medicare Extra Benefits Card There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
You get an Aetna Medicare Extra Benefits Card to help pay for deductible for the Aetna Medicare Extra
certain everyday expenses. Benefits Card.
On this card you get:
A CVS Over‑the‑Counter (OTC) Wallet with a quarterly benefit
amount (allowance). See the CVS Over‑the‑Counter (OTC)
Wallet section in Chapter 4 for more details.
Important:
• The Aetna Medicare Extra Benefits Card does not replace
your member ID card.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
40 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Aetna® Medicare Extra Benefits Card (continued)
• If you received an Extra Benefits Card in 2025 and have
not changed plans, you will not receive a new card for the
2026 plan year. Be sure to keep your card.
• If you are a new member or were not enrolled in a plan
with an Extra Benefits Card in 2025, you will receive a new
card in the mail. You should receive the card before your
plan starts. It will include instructions on how to activate
and use the card.
• If you change plans, you may receive a new card. Hold
onto your current card and do not throw it away unless
you get a new card.
• It is your responsibility to ensure that Aetna has the most
up‑to‑date mailing address on file. This includes your
apartment number, if applicable. Aetna is not responsible
for misdirected, lost, or undelivered mail.
• Keep your card safe and secure. Aetna is not responsible
for unused funds due to lost or stolen cards. If you need a
replacement card, please call 1‑844‑428‑8147 (TTY: 711)
to request a new card. In the meantime, you can access
certain benefits by visiting CVS.com/Aetna.
• The card can only be used at participating retailers that
accept Visa®. Find a participating retailer by visiting
CVS.com/Aetna.
• The card cannot be used to pay for prescription drugs or
products such as alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, firearms,
and gift cards.
• The card can only be used to pay for products and
services incurred while enrolled in the plan.
• Aetna is not responsible for unused funds due to personal
circumstances in which you cannot use your benefit
amount (e.g., hospital stay, travel, etc.).
• Unused funds will be forfeited. There will be no exceptions
to apply unused funds due to a lost or stolen card,
personal circumstances, or failure to provide your
accurate mailing address to Aetna.
For more information you can call 1‑844‑428‑8147 (TTY: 711) 7
days a week, 8 AM ‑ 8 PM local time excluding federal holidays
or visit CVS.com/Aetna.
Ambulance services $275 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Covered ambulance services, whether for an emergency or one‑way trip via ground ambulance.
non‑emergency situation, include fixed wing, rotary wing, and
ground ambulance services, to the nearest appropriate facility 20% coinsurance for each
that can provide care if they’re furnished to a member whose Medicare‑covered one‑way trip via air
medical condition is such that other means of transportation ambulance.
could endanger the person’s health or if authorized by our plan.
If the covered ambulance services aren't for an emergency Ground or air ambulance cost sharing is
situation, it should be documented that the member’s condition not waived if you are admitted to the
is such that other means of transportation could endanger the hospital.
person’s health and that transportation by ambulance is
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 41
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Ambulance services (continued)
medically required.
Prior authorization is required for all non‑emergency
transportation, including fixed wing, rotary wing, and ground
ambulance services.
Annual routine physical $0 copay for an annual routine physical
The annual routine physical is an extensive physical exam exam.
including a medical history collection and it may also include
any of the following: vital signs, observation of general
appearance, a head and neck exam, a heart and lung exam, an
abdominal exam, a neurological exam, a dermatological exam,
and an extremities exam.
Coverage for this non‑Medicare covered benefit is in addition to
the Medicare‑covered annual wellness visit and the Welcome to
Medicare preventive visit. You may schedule your annual
routine physical once each calendar year.
Preventive labs, screenings, and/or diagnostic tests received
during this visit are subject to your lab and diagnostic test
coverage. (See Outpatient diagnostic tests and therapeutic
services and supplies for more information.)
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Annual wellness visit
deductible for the annual wellness visit.
If you’ve had Part B for longer than 12 months, you can get an
annual wellness visit to develop or update a personalized
prevention plan based on your current health and risk factors.
Our plan will cover the annual wellness visit once each calendar
year.
Note: Your first annual wellness visit can’t take place within 12
months of your Welcome to Medicare preventive visit. However,
you don’t need to have had a Welcome to Medicare visit to be
covered for annual wellness visits after you’ve had Part B for 12
months.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Bone mass measurement
deductible for Medicare‑covered bone
For qualified people (generally, this means people at risk of
mass measurement.
losing bone mass or at risk of osteoporosis), the following
services are covered every 24 months or more frequently if
medically necessary: procedures to identify bone mass, detect
bone loss, or determine bone quality, including a physician’s
interpretation of the results.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Breast cancer screening (mammograms)
deductible for covered screening
Covered services include:
mammograms.
• One baseline mammogram between the ages of 35 and
39
• One screening mammogram each calendar year for
women aged 40 and older
• Clinical breast exams once every 24 months
42 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Cardiac rehabilitation services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Comprehensive programs of cardiac rehabilitation services that cardiac rehabilitation service.
include exercise, education, and counseling are covered for
members who meet certain conditions with a doctor’s order. $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
intensive cardiac rehabilitation service.
Our plan also covers intensive cardiac rehabilitation programs
that are typically more rigorous or more intense than cardiac
rehabilitation programs.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Cardiovascular disease risk reduction visit (therapy for
deductible for the intensive behavioral
cardiovascular disease)
therapy cardiovascular disease
We cover one visit per year with your primary care doctor to
preventive benefit.
help lower your risk for cardiovascular disease. During this visit,
your doctor may discuss aspirin use (if appropriate), check your
blood pressure, and give you tips to make sure you’re eating
healthy.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Cardiovascular disease screening tests
deductible for cardiovascular disease
Blood tests for the detection of cardiovascular disease (or
testing that is covered once every 5
abnormalities associated with an elevated risk of cardiovascular
years.
disease) once every 5 years (60 months).
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Cervical and vaginal cancer screening
deductible for Medicare‑covered
Covered services include:
preventive Pap and pelvic exams.
• For all women: Pap tests and pelvic exams are covered
once every 24 months
• If you're at high risk of cervical or vaginal cancer or you're
of childbearing age and have had an abnormal Pap test
within the past 3 years: one Pap test every 12 months
Chiropractic services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Covered services include: chiropractic visit.
• Manual manipulation of the spine to correct subluxation $0 copay for each additional
non‑Medicare covered chiropractic visit.
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer:
• Additional (non‑Medicare covered) chiropractic services:
unlimited visits every year
We have teamed up with American Specialty Health® (ASH) to
provide your chiropractic coverage. Covered services include,
but are not limited to: evaluation and management, x‑ray
examination, chiropractic manipulative therapy, modalities and
therapeutic procedures, and physical rehabilitation for
musculoskeletal conditions of the spine and extremities.
An in‑network provider must determine medical necessity for
covered services. To locate a network provider, you may
contact Member Services at the phone number on your
member ID card or visit our online directory at aet.na/search. If
you choose to use a provider outside of the network, the
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 43
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Chiropractic services (continued)
services you receive will not be covered.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
*Amounts you pay for additional chiropractic services do not
apply to your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
Chronic pain management and treatment services Cost sharing for this service will vary
Covered monthly services for people living with chronic pain depending on individual services
(persistent or recurring pain lasting longer than 3 months). provided under the course of the
Services may include pain assessment, medication treatment.
management, and care coordination and planning.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Colorectal cancer screening
deductible for a Medicare‑covered
The following screening tests are covered:
colorectal cancer screening exam. This
is also known as a preventive
• Colonoscopy has no minimum or maximum age limitation
colonoscopy.
and is covered once every 120 months (10 years) for
patients not at high risk, or 48 months after a previous
Diagnostic colonoscopy: $0 copay
flexible sigmoidoscopy for patients who aren't at high risk
for colorectal cancer, and once every 24 months for high
Note: If a polyp is removed or a biopsy is
risk patients after a previous screening colonoscopy.
performed during a Medicare‑covered
• Computed tomography colonography for patients 45 year
screening or diagnostic colonoscopy,
and older who are not at high risk of colorectal cancer and
the polyp removal and associated
is covered when at least 59 months have passed following
pathology will be covered at $0 copay.
the month in which the last screening computed
tomography colonography was performed or 47 months
have passed following the month in which the last
screening flexible sigmoidoscopy or screening
colonoscopy was performed. For patients at high risk for
colorectal cancer, payment may be made for a screening
computed tomography colonography performed after at
least 23 months have passed following the month in
which the last screening computed tomography
colonography or the last screening colonoscopy was
performed.
• Flexible sigmoidoscopy for patients 45 years and older.
Once every 120 months for patients not at high‑risk after
the patient received a screening colonoscopy. Once every
48 months for high risk patients from the last flexible
sigmoidoscopy or computed tomography colonography.
• Screening fecal‑occult blood tests for patients 45 years
and older. Twice per calendar year.
• Screening Guaiac‑based fecal occult blood test for
patients 45 years and older. Twice per calendar year.
• Multitarget stool DNA for patients 45 to 85 years of age
and not meeting high risk criteria. Once every 3 years.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
44 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Colorectal cancer screening (continued)
• Blood‑based Biomarker Tests for patients 45 to 85 years
of age and not meeting high risk criteria. Once every 3
years.
• Colorectal cancer screening tests include a follow‑on
screening colonoscopy after a Medicare covered
non‑invasive stool‑based colorectal cancer screening test
returns a positive result.
• Colorectal cancer screening tests include a planned
screening flexible sigmoidoscopy or screening
colonoscopy that involves the removal of tissue or other
matter, or other procedure furnished in connection with,
as a result of, and in the same clinical encounter as the
screening test.
CVS Over‑the‑Counter (OTC) Wallet There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
You get a CVS Over‑the‑Counter (OTC) Wallet with a $45 deductible for the CVS
quarterly benefit amount (allowance) on the Aetna® Medicare Over‑the‑Counter (OTC) Wallet.
Extra Benefits Card to pay for:
• Approved over‑the‑counter (OTC) health and wellness
products including allergy medicine, pain relievers, first
aid supplies, and more. This benefit includes certain
nicotine replacement therapies.
• The allowance can only be used to purchase approved
OTC products in‑store at CVS® retail locations (excluding
locations inside other stores) and online at
CVS.com/Aetna or by phone at 1‑844‑428‑8147 (TTY:
711).
Your quarterly benefit amount will be available on the Aetna
Medicare Extra Benefits Card the first day of each calendar
quarter. Calendar quarters begin in January, April, July, and
October. Be sure to use the full benefit amount each quarter,
because any unused benefit amount will not roll over into the
next quarter nor will it roll over into the next plan year. There are
no exceptions to request additional or unused funds to be
added to your card.
Important: All products and services are subject to tax
(depending on your state). Your card balance will be used to
cover taxes. If there are not enough funds on your card to cover
the taxes, they will be your responsibility to cover. For more
information on the Aetna Medicare Extra Benefits Card, see the
Aetna Medicare Extra Benefits Card section in Chapter 4.
Dental services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
In general, preventive dental services (such as cleanings, dental service.
routine dental exams, and dental x‑rays) aren't covered by
Original Medicare. However, Medicare pays for dental services Preventive dental services
in a limited number of circumstances, specifically when that (non‑Medicare covered): For details on
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 45
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Dental services (continued)
service is an integral part of specific treatment of a person’s cost‑sharing for covered preventive
primary medical condition. Examples include reconstruction of services, see the dental schedule.
the jaw after a fracture or injury, tooth extractions done in
preparation for radiation treatment for cancer involving the jaw, Comprehensive dental services
or oral exams prior to organ transplantation. (non‑Medicare covered): For details on
cost‑sharing for covered comprehensive
In addition, we cover the following non‑Medicare covered services, see the dental schedule.
benefits:
What you must pay when you get these
Preventive dental services (non‑Medicare covered): For a list services out‑of‑network:
of covered preventive services, see the dental schedule.
Preventive dental services
Comprehensive dental services (non‑Medicare covered): For (non‑Medicare covered): For details on
a list of covered comprehensive services, see the dental cost‑sharing for covered preventive
schedule. services, see the dental schedule.
You get an annual benefit amount (allowance) of $1,500 for Comprehensive dental services
covered comprehensive dental services. Covered preventive (non‑Medicare covered): For details on
dental services do not count toward your annual benefit cost‑sharing for covered comprehensive
amount. Covered services will be paid to the provider up to the services, see the dental schedule.
annual benefit amount (allowance). If you exceed the benefit
amount for covered comprehensive services, you will be
responsible for those costs and will not be reimbursed.
This dental benefit offers both in‑network and out‑of‑network
dental coverage. Out‑of‑network dentists are not required to
accept the plan’s payment as payment in full for covered
services. Out‑of‑network claims are reimbursed up to the plan’s
allowable amount for each covered service. That means your
plan will pay its portion for covered services. If your
out‑of‑network provider charges over the allowable amount for
a covered service, you may receive a bill and you will be
responsible for payment of that bill.
For the lowest potential out‑of‑pocket costs on covered dental
services, see a provider in our dental network. Dental services
you receive from an out‑of‑network provider are subject to any
in‑network benefit maximums, limitations and/or exclusions
that may apply.
See dental schedule for more details. To find a provider in the
dental network, visit AetnaMedicare.com/H0523-073 or call
the Member Services number on your member ID card. Note:
Your dental network is different than your medical network.
*Amounts you pay for preventive dental services do not apply to
your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
*Amounts you pay for comprehensive dental services do not
apply to your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
46 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Depression screening
deductible for an annual depression
We cover one screening for depression per year. The screening
screening visit.
must be done in a primary care setting that can provide
follow‑up treatment and/or referrals.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Diabetes screening
deductible for the Medicare‑covered
We cover this screening (includes fasting glucose tests) if you
diabetes screening tests.
have any of these risk factors: high blood pressure
(hypertension), history of abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride
levels (dyslipidemia), obesity, or a history of high blood sugar
(glucose). Tests may also be covered if you meet other
requirements, like being overweight and having a family history
of diabetes.
You may be eligible for up to 2 diabetes screenings every 12
months following the date of your most recent diabetes
screening test.
0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for each
Diabetes self‑management training, diabetic services and
Medicare‑covered supply.
supplies
For all people who have diabetes (insulin and non‑insulin users).
• 0% coinsurance for
Covered services include:
Accu‑Chek/Roche and TRUE/Trividia
blood glucose meters, and medical
• Supplies to monitor your blood glucose: blood glucose
diabetic supplies.
monitor, blood glucose test strips, lancet devices and
• 20% coinsurance for blood glucose
lancets, and glucose‑control solutions for checking the
meters and supplies manufactured
accuracy of test strips and monitors.
by providers other than
• For people with diabetes who have severe diabetic foot
Accu‑Chek/Roche and TRUE/Trividia
disease: one pair per calendar year of therapeutic
with an approved prior authorization.
custom‑molded shoes (including inserts provided with
• Coinsurance for pharmacy diabetic
such shoes) and 2 additional pairs of inserts, or one pair of
supplies is determined by tier in the
depth shoes and 3 pairs of inserts (not including the
plan's formulary guide.
non‑customized removable inserts provided with such
shoes). Coverage includes fitting.
$0 copay for Medicare‑covered diabetic
• Diabetes self‑management training is covered under
shoes and inserts.
certain conditions.
$0 copay for Medicare‑covered
Important Blood Glucose Meter (BGM) Information:
diabetes self‑management training.
We exclusively cover blood glucose meters and test strips
manufactured and distributed by Roche/Accu‑Chek and
TRUE/Trividia meters currently available. Meters and test strips
produced by other manufacturers may be covered if medically
necessary, such as large font or talking meters for the visually
impaired. Medical exceptions for the visually impaired may be
covered with an approved prior authorization.
• Blood glucose meters and other testing supplies (e.g.,
lancing devices, lancets and test strips) can be obtained
with a prescription from a network pharmacy or Durable
Medical Equipment (DME) provider.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 47
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Diabetes self‑management training, diabetic services and
supplies (continued)
• Medical diabetic supplies; blood glucose meters, lancets
and control solutions are covered under your medical
coverage.
• Pharmacy diabetic supplies (e.g., alcohol swabs, lancets,
2x2 gauze, needles and syringes) are covered under your
prescription drug coverage. These diabetic supplies can
be found on your plan’s formulary guide.
• Prior authorization are required for more than one blood
glucose meter per year and/or test strips in excess of 100
strips for a one month supply and may be required for
diabetic shoes and inserts. Prior authorization is the
responsibility of your provider.
Durable medical equipment (DME) and related supplies 0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for each
(For a definition of durable medical equipment, go to Chapter 12 Medicare‑covered durable medical
and Chapter 3.) equipment (DME) item.
Covered items include, but aren't limited to: wheelchairs, • 0% coinsurance for continuous
crutches, powered mattress systems, diabetic supplies, hospital glucose monitors.
beds ordered by a provider for use in the home, IV infusion • 20% coinsurance for all other
pumps, speech generating devices, oxygen equipment, Medicare‑covered DME items.
nebulizers, and walkers.
We cover all medically necessary DME covered by Original
Medicare. Your provider must provide a prescription for
covered DME and obtain prior authorization if required.
In Original Medicare, there is a rental policy up to the purchase
price for certain types of DME after making copayments for the
rental period. The rental period typically lasts between 10 to 13
months. Once the purchase price is met, you can use the
equipment as long as it is needed. Once it is no longer needed,
the issuing provider will need to pick it up. Under certain limited
circumstances we will transfer ownership of the DME item to
you.
The most recent list of network DME pharmacies and suppliers
is available on our website at AetnaMedicare.com/dme. Your
PCP and/or Medical Group may also refer you to additional
DME suppliers in your service area.
Continuous glucose monitors (CGMs) and supplies are available
through network DME providers. For a list of DME providers,
visit
Aetna.com/dsepublicContent/assets/pdf/en/DME_National
_Provider_Listing.pdf.
Dexcom and FreeStyle Libre continuous glucose monitors and
This benefit is continued on the next page.
48 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Durable medical equipment (DME) and related supplies
(continued)
sensors are available without a prior authorization at network
pharmacies with a history of insulin usage in the past 6 months.
For those not using insulin as part of their treatment plan, prior
authorization will be required for monitors and sensors. Prior
authorization for monitors and sensors may apply as well as
exception requests if exceeding quantity limits that align to
Medicare coverage guidance.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Emergency care $150 copay for emergency care. Cost
Emergency care refers to services that are: sharing is waived if you are admitted to
the hospital within 24 hours.
• Furnished by a provider qualified to furnish emergency
services, and $150 copay for emergency care
• Needed to evaluate or stabilize an emergency medical worldwide (i.e., outside the United
condition. States). Cost sharing is waived if you are
admitted to the hospital.
A medical emergency is when you, or any other prudent
layperson with an average knowledge of health and medicine, $275 copay for one‑way emergency
believe that you have medical symptoms that require ambulance services worldwide (i.e.,
immediate medical attention to prevent loss of life (and, if you're outside the United States). Cost sharing
a pregnant woman, loss of an unborn child), loss of a limb, or is not waived if you are admitted to the
loss of function of a limb. The medical symptoms may be an hospital.
illness, injury, severe pain, or a medical condition that's quickly
getting worse. If you get emergency care at an
out‑of‑network hospital and need
Cost sharing for necessary emergency services you get inpatient care after your emergency
out‑of‑network is the same as when you get these services condition is stabilized, you must move to
in‑network. a network hospital for your care to
continue to be covered OR you must
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer: have your inpatient care at the
out‑of‑network hospital authorized by
• Emergency care (worldwide) our plan and your cost is the cost
• Emergency ambulance services (worldwide) sharing you would pay at a network
hospital.
$250,000 annual maximum benefit for worldwide emergency,
emergency ambulance, and urgently needed care.
You may have to pay the provider at the time of service and
submit for reimbursement. You will be reimbursed up to the
annual maximum benefit amount less any applicable copay or
cost share.
Fitness: Annual fitness membership $0 copay for basic health club
You are covered for a basic membership to any SilverSneakers® membership/fitness classes at
participating fitness facility. If you do not reside near a participating SilverSneakers locations.
participating facility, or prefer to exercise at home, online
classes and at‑home fitness kits are available. You may order
one fitness kit per year through SilverSneakers.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 49
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Fitness: Annual fitness membership (continued)
Included with your basic SilverSneakers membership, you will
also have access to online enrichment classes to support your
health and wellness, as well as your mental fitness. Health and
wellness classes include, but are not limited to: cooking, food &
nutrition, and mindfulness. Mental fitness classes include, but
are not limited to: new skills, organization, self‑help, and staying
connected. These classes can be accessed online by visiting
SilverSneakers.com.
To get started, you will need your SilverSneakers ID number.
Please visit SilverSneakers.com or call SilverSneakers at
1‑855‑627‑3795 (TTY: 711) to obtain this ID number. Then,
bring this ID number with you when you visit a participating
fitness facility. Information about participating facilities can be
found by using the SilverSneakers website or by calling
SilverSneakers.
Important: You get a basic membership at any participating
SilverSneakers location. Facility amenities may vary by
participating location including but not limited to hours, days
and class types.
$0 copay for 24‑Hour Nurse Line
Health and wellness education programs
benefit.
24‑Hour Nurse Line: You can talk to a registered nurse 24
hours a day, 7 days a week on the 24/7 Nurse Line. They can
$0 copay for health education.
help with health‑related questions when your doctor is not
available. Call 1‑855‑493‑7019 (TTY: 711). The registered nurse
staff cannot diagnose, prescribe or give medical advice. If you
need urgent or emergency care, call 911 and/or your doctor
immediately.
* While only your doctor can diagnose, prescribe or give
medical advice, the 24‑Hour Nurse Line can provide information
on a variety of health topics.
Health education: You can meet with a certified health
educator or other qualified health professional to learn about
health and wellness topics like: diabetes management, nutrition
counseling, asthma education, and more. You have the option
to meet one‑on‑one, in a group, or virtually. Ask your provider
for information on how these services may help you.
Hearing services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Diagnostic hearing and balance evaluations performed by your hearing exam.
provider to determine if you need medical treatment are
covered as outpatient care when you get them from a $0 copay for each non‑Medicare
physician, audiologist, or other qualified provider. covered routine hearing exam.
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer: $0 copay for each non‑Medicare
covered hearing aid fitting/evaluation.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
50 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Hearing services (continued)
• Routine hearing exams: one exam every year Hearing aids:
• Hearing aid fitting/evaluation: one hearing aid $0 copay per ear, per year (two hearing
fitting/evaluation every year aids every year).
• Hearing aids: You get an annual benefit amount
(allowance) of $500 per ear, every year. This benefit
amount can only be used to purchase hearing aids
through a NationsHearing® network provider. If the cost is
over the benefit amount, you pay the difference.
Routine hearing exam and hearing aids:
We have teamed up with NationsHearing to provide your
hearing exam and hearing aids. You must see a provider in the
NationsHearing network for your hearing exam and hearing
aids to be covered. Your hearing aid benefit amount can only be
used to purchase hearing aids through a NationsHearing
network provider. The benefit amount is applied to the hearing
aids at the time of purchase. If the cost is more than the benefit
amount, you pay the difference. You can schedule your hearing
exam or hearing aid appointment with a NationsHearing
provider by calling 1‑877‑225‑0137 (TTY: 711). Representatives
are available 8:00 am to 8:00 pm local time, 7 days a week, with
the exception of holidays.
*Amounts you pay for hearing aids do not apply to your
maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
There's no coinsurance, copayment, or
HIV screening
deductible for members eligible for
For people who ask for an HIV screening test or are at increased
Medicare‑covered preventive HIV
risk for HIV infection, we cover:
screening.
• One screening exam every 12 months
If you are pregnant, we cover:
• Up to 3 screening exams during a pregnancy
Home health agency care $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Before you get home health services, a doctor must certify that home health service.
you need home health services and will order home health
services to be provided by a home health agency. You must be 0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for each
homebound, which means leaving home is a major effort. Medicare‑covered durable medical
equipment (DME) item.
Covered services include, but aren't limited to:
• 0% coinsurance for continuous
• Part‑time or intermittent skilled nursing and home health glucose monitors.
aide services (to be covered under the home health care • 20% coinsurance for all other
benefit, your skilled nursing and home health aide Medicare‑covered DME items.
services combined must total fewer than 8 hours per day
and 35 hours per week.)
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 51
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Home health agency care (continued)
• Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech
therapy
• Medical and social services
• Medical equipment and supplies
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Home infusion therapy You will pay the cost sharing that applies
Home infusion therapy involves the intravenous or to primary care provider services,
subcutaneous administration of drugs or biologicals to a person specialist physician services (including
at home. The components needed to perform home infusion certified home infusion providers), or
include the drug (for example, antivirals, immune globulin), home health services depending on
equipment (for example, a pump), and supplies (for example, where you received administration or
tubing and catheters). monitoring services. (See
Physician/Practitioner services,
Prior to receiving home infusion services, they must be ordered including doctor’s office visits or
by a doctor and included in your care plan. Home health agency care for any
applicable cost sharing.)
Covered services include, but aren't limited to:
Note: Home infusion drugs, pumps, and
• Professional services, including nursing services, devices provided during a home infusion
furnished in accordance with our plan of care therapy visit are covered separately
• Patient training and education not otherwise covered under your Durable medical equipment
under the durable medical equipment benefit (DME) and related supplies benefit.
• Remote monitoring
• Monitoring services for the provision of home infusion
therapy and home infusion drugs furnished by a qualified
home infusion therapy supplier
Hospice care When you enroll in a Medicare‑certified
You're eligible for the hospice benefit when your doctor and the hospice program, your hospice services
hospice medical director have given you a terminal prognosis and your Part A and Part B services
certifying that you’re terminally ill and have 6 months or less to related to your terminal prognosis are
live if your illness runs its normal course. You can get care from paid for by Original Medicare, not Aetna
any Medicare‑certified hospice program. Our plan is obligated Medicare Prime (HMO‑POS).
to help you find Medicare‑certified hospice programs in our
plan's service area, including programs we own, control, or have Hospice consultations are included as
a financial interest in. Your hospice doctor can be a network part of inpatient hospital care.
provider or an out‑of‑network provider.
Physician service cost sharing may
Covered services include: apply for outpatient consultations.
• Drugs for symptom control and pain relief
• Short‑term respite care
• Home care
This benefit is continued on the next page.
52 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Hospice care (continued)
When you're admitted to a hospice you have the right to stay in
our plan; if you stay in our plan you must continue to pay plan
premiums.
For hospice services and services covered by Medicare Part
A or B that are related to your terminal prognosis: Original
Medicare (rather than our plan) will pay your hospice provider
for your hospice services and any Part A and Part B services
related to your terminal prognosis. While you're in the hospice
program, your hospice provider will bill Original Medicare for
the services Original Medicare pays for. You'll be billed Original
Medicare cost sharing.
For services covered by Medicare Part A or B not related to
your terminal prognosis: If you need non‑emergency,
non‑urgently needed services covered under Medicare Part A
or B that aren't related to your terminal prognosis, your cost for
these services depends on whether you use a provider in our
plan’s network and follow plan rules (like if there's a
requirement to get prior authorization).
• If you get the covered services from a network provider
and follow plan rules for getting service, you pay only our
plan cost‑sharing amount for in‑network services
• If you get the covered services from an out‑of‑network
provider, you pay the cost‑sharing under Original
Medicare.
For services that are covered by Aetna Medicare Prime
(HMO‑POS) but not covered by Medicare Part A or B: Aetna
Medicare Prime (HMO‑POS) will continue to cover
plan‑covered services that aren't covered under Part A or Part B
whether or not they're related to your terminal prognosis. You
pay our plan cost‑sharing amount for these services.
For drugs that may be covered by our plan’s Part D benefit: If
these drugs are unrelated to your terminal hospice condition,
you pay cost sharing. If they're related to your terminal hospice
condition, you pay Original Medicare cost sharing. Drugs are
never covered by both hospice and our plan at the same time.
For more information, go to Chapter 5, Section 9.4 .
Note: If you need non‑hospice care (care that is not related to
your terminal prognosis), you should contact us to arrange the
services.
Our plan covers hospice consultation services (one time only)
for a terminally ill person who hasn’t elected the hospice
benefit.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 53
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Immunizations
deductible for the pneumonia,
Covered Medicare Part B services include:
flu/influenza, Hepatitis B, and COVID‑19
vaccines.
• Pneumonia vaccines
• Flu/influenza shots (or vaccines), once each flu/influenza
0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for all other
season in the fall and winter, with additional flu/influenza
vaccines covered under Medicare Part
shots (or vaccines) if medically necessary
B.
• Hepatitis B vaccines if you're at high or intermediate risk
of getting Hepatitis B
• Cost sharing shown is the
• COVID‑19 vaccines
maximum you will pay for Part B
• Other vaccines if you're at risk and they meet Medicare prescription drugs. You may pay
Part B coverage rules less for certain drugs.
We also cover most other adult vaccines under our Part D drug
benefit. Go to Chapter 6, Section 7 for more information.
Inpatient hospital care $0 per stay for each medically
Includes inpatient acute, inpatient rehabilitation, long‑term care necessary covered inpatient stay. Cost
hospitals and other types of inpatient hospital services. Inpatient sharing is charged for each medically
hospital care starts the day you're formally admitted to the necessary covered inpatient stay.
hospital with a doctor’s order. The day before you're discharged
is your last inpatient day. Your inpatient benefits will begin on day
one each time you are admitted within
Days covered: There is no limit to the number of days covered or to a specific facility type. A transfer
by our plan. within or to a facility including Inpatient
Rehabilitation facilities, Long‑Term
Covered services include but aren't limited to: Acute Care (LTAC) facilities, Inpatient
Acute Care facilities, and Inpatient
• Semi‑private room (or a private room if medically Psychiatric facilities, is considered a new
necessary) admission.
• Meals including special diets
• Regular nursing services If you get authorized inpatient care at an
out‑of‑network hospital after your
• Costs of special care units (such as intensive care or
emergency condition is stabilized, your
coronary care units)
cost is the cost sharing you'd pay at a
• Drugs and medications
network hospital.
• Lab tests
• X‑rays and other radiology services
• Necessary surgical and medical supplies
• Use of appliances, such as wheelchairs
• Operating and recovery room costs
• Physical, occupational, and speech language therapy
• Inpatient substance abuse services
• Under certain conditions, the following types of
transplants are covered: corneal, kidney,
kidney‑pancreatic, heart, liver, lung, heart/lung, bone
marrow, stem cell, and intestinal/multivisceral. If you
need a transplant, we'll arrange to have your case
reviewed by a Medicare‑approved transplant center that
will decide whether you're a candidate for a transplant.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
54 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Inpatient hospital care (continued)
Transplant providers may be local or outside of the
service area. If our in‑network transplant services are
outside the community pattern of care, you may choose
to go locally as long as the local transplant providers are
willing to accept the Original Medicare rate. If Aetna
Medicare Prime (HMO‑POS) provides transplant services
at a location outside the pattern of care for transplants in
your community and you choose to get transplants at this
distant location, we'll arrange or pay for appropriate
lodging and transportation costs for you and a
companion.
• Blood – including storage and administration. Coverage of
whole blood and packed red cells starts with the first pint
of blood you need. All other components of blood are
covered starting with the first pint.
• Physician services
Note: To be an inpatient, your provider must write an order to
admit you formally as an inpatient of the hospital. Even if you
stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered an
outpatient. If you're not sure if you're an inpatient or an
outpatient, ask the hospital staff.
Get more information in the Medicare fact sheet Medicare
Hospital Benefits. This fact sheet is available at
Medicare.gov/publications/11435-Medicare-Hospital-
Benefits.pdf or by calling 1‑800‑MEDICARE (1‑800‑633‑4227).
TTY users call 1‑877‑486‑2048.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
*Amounts you pay for blood do not apply to your maximum
out‑of‑pocket amount.
Inpatient services in a psychiatric hospital $0 per stay for each medically
Covered services include mental health care services that necessary covered inpatient stay. Cost
require a hospital stay. sharing is charged for each medically
necessary covered inpatient stay.
Days covered: There is a 190‑day lifetime limit for inpatient
services in a psychiatric hospital. The 190‑day limit doesn't Your inpatient benefits will begin on day
apply to inpatient mental health services provided in a one each time you are admitted within
psychiatric unit of a general hospital. or to a specific facility type. A transfer
within or to a facility including Inpatient
Please refer to the number on your member ID card for Rehabilitation facilities, Long‑Term
assistance with locating a participating provider. Acute Care (LTAC) facilities, Inpatient
Acute Care facilities, and Inpatient
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility Psychiatric facilities, is considered a new
of your provider. admission.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 55
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Inpatient stay: Covered services you get in a hospital or SNF $0 copay for Medicare‑covered primary
during a non‑covered inpatient stay care provider (PCP) services (including
If you’ve used up your skilled nursing facility benefits, or if the urgently needed services).
skilled nursing facility or inpatient stay isn’t reasonable and
necessary, we won’t cover your inpatient stay. In some cases, $0 copay for Medicare‑covered
we’ll cover certain services you get while you’re in the hospital physician specialist services (including
or the skilled nursing facility (SNF). Covered services include, surgery second opinion, home infusion
but aren’t limited to: professional services, and urgently
needed services).
• Physician services
• Diagnostic tests (like lab tests) $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
diagnostic procedure and test.
• X‑ray, radium, and isotope therapy including technician
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
materials and services
lab service.
• Surgical dressings
• Splints, casts and other devices used to reduce fractures
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered CT
and dislocations
scan.
• Prosthetics and orthotics devices (other than dental) that
replace all or part of an internal body organ (including
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
contiguous tissue), or all or part of the function of a
diagnostic radiology service other than
permanently inoperative or malfunctioning internal body
CT scans.
organ, including replacement or repairs of such devices
• Leg, arm, back, and neck braces; trusses, and artificial
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
legs, arms, and eyes including adjustments, repairs, and
x‑ray.
replacements required because of breakage, wear, loss,
or a change in the patient’s physical condition
$60 copay for each Medicare‑covered
• Physical therapy, speech therapy, and occupational
therapeutic radiology service.
therapy
0% coinsurance for Medicare‑covered
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
medical supplies.
of your provider.
20% coinsurance for each
Medicare‑covered prosthetic and
orthotic device.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
physical and speech therapy service.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
occupational therapy service.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Medical nutrition therapy
deductible for members eligible for
This benefit is for people with diabetes, renal (kidney) disease
Medicare‑covered medical nutrition
(but not on dialysis), or after a kidney transplant when ordered
therapy services.
by your doctor.
We cover 3 hours of one‑on‑one counseling services during the
first year you get medical nutrition therapy services under
Medicare (this includes our plan, any other Medicare Advantage
plan, or Original Medicare), and 2 hours each year after that. If
your condition, treatment, or diagnosis changes, you may be
This benefit is continued on the next page.
56 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Medical nutrition therapy (continued)
able to get more hours of treatment with a physician’s order. A
physician must prescribe these services and renew their order
yearly if your treatment is needed into the next calendar year.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program (MDPP)
deductible for the MDPP benefit.
MDPP services are covered for eligible people under all
Medicare health plans.
MDPP is a structured health behavior change intervention that
provides practical training in long‑term dietary change,
increased physical activity, and problem‑solving strategies for
overcoming challenges to sustaining weight loss and a healthy
lifestyle.
Medicare Part B drugs $35 copay for insulin. Insulin cost
These drugs are covered under Part B of Original Medicare. sharing is subject to a coinsurance cap
Members of our plan receive coverage for these drugs of $35 for one‑month’s supply of insulin
through our plan. Covered drugs include: and plan level deductibles do not apply.
• Drugs that usually aren’t self‑administered by the patient 0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for
and are injected or infused while you get physician, chemotherapy drugs.
hospital outpatient, or ambulatory surgical center services
• Insulin furnished through an item of durable medical • Cost sharing shown is the
equipment (such as a medically necessary insulin pump) maximum you will pay for Part B
• Other drugs you take using durable medical equipment prescription drugs. You may pay
(such as nebulizers) that were authorized by our plan less for certain drugs.
• The Alzheimer’s drug, Leqembi® (generic name
lecanemab), which is administered intravenously. In 0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for all other
addition to medication costs, you may need additional drugs covered under Medicare Part B.
scans and tests before and/or during treatment that could
add to your overall costs. Talk to your doctor about what • Cost sharing shown is the
scans and tests you may need as part of your treatment maximum you will pay for Part B
• Clotting factors you give yourself by injection if you have prescription drugs. You may pay
hemophilia less for certain drugs.
• Transplant/immunosuppressive drugs: Medicare covers
transplant drug therapy if Medicare paid for your organ
transplant. You must have Part A at the time of the Part B drugs may be subject to step
covered transplant, and you must have Part B at the time therapy requirements.
you get immunosuppressive drugs. Medicare Part D drug
coverage covers immunosuppressive drugs if Part B
doesn't cover them
• Injectable osteoporosis drugs, if you’re homebound, have
a bone fracture that a doctor certifies was related to
post‑menopausal osteoporosis, and can’t self‑administer
the drug
• Some antigens: Medicare covers antigens if a doctor
prepares them and a properly instructed person (who
could be you, the patient) gives them under appropriate
supervision
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 57
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Medicare Part B drugs (continued)
• Certain oral anti‑cancer drugs: Medicare covers some
oral cancer drugs you take by mouth if the same drug is
available in injectable form or the drug is a prodrug (an
oral form of a drug that, when ingested, breaks down into
the same active ingredient found in the injectable drug) of
the injectable drug. As new oral cancer drugs become
available, Part B may cover them. If Part B doesn’t cover
them, Part D does.
• Oral anti‑nausea drugs: Medicare covers oral anti‑nausea
drugs you use as part of an anti‑cancer chemotherapeutic
regimen if they’re administered before, at, or within 48
hours of chemotherapy or are used as a full therapeutic
replacement for an intravenous anti‑nausea drug
• Certain oral End‑Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) drugs
covered under Medicare Part B
• Calcimimetic and phosphate binder medications under
the ESRD payment system, including the intravenous
medication Parsabiv®, and the oral medication Sensipar®
• Certain drugs for home dialysis, including heparin, the
antidote for heparin when medically necessary and
topical anesthetics
• Erythropoiesis‑stimulating agents: Medicare covers
erythropoietin by injection if you have End‑Stage Renal
Disease (ESRD) or you need this drug to treat anemia
related to certain other conditions (such as Epogen®,
Procrit®, Retacrit®, Epoetin Alfa, Aranesp®, Darbepoetin
Alfa, Mircera®, or Methoxy polyethylene glycol‑epoetin
beta)
• Intravenous Immune Globulin for the home treatment of
primary immune deficiency diseases
• Parenteral and enteral nutrition (intravenous and tube
feeding)
This link will take you to a list of Part B drugs that may be
subject to Step Therapy: Aetna.com/PartB-Step
We also cover some vaccines under our Part B and most adult
vaccines under our Part D drug benefit.
Chapter 5 explains our Part D drug benefit, including rules you
must follow to have prescriptions covered. What you pay for
your Part D drugs through our plan is explained in Chapter 6.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Obesity screening and therapy to promote sustained
deductible for preventive obesity
weight loss
screening and therapy.
If you have a body mass index of 30 or more, we cover intensive
counseling to help you lose weight. This counseling is covered if
This benefit is continued on the next page.
58 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Obesity screening and therapy to promote sustained
weight loss (continued)
you get it in a primary care setting, where it can be coordinated
with your comprehensive prevention plan. Talk to your primary
care doctor or practitioner to find out more.
Opioid treatment program services $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Members of our plan with opioid use disorder (OUD) can get opioid use disorder treatment service.
coverage of services to treat OUD through an Opioid Treatment
Program (OTP) which includes the following services:
• U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)‑approved opioid
agonist and antagonist medication‑assisted treatment
(MAT) medications
• Dispensing and administration of MAT medications (if
applicable)
• Substance use counseling
• Individual and group therapy
• Toxicology testing
• Intake activities
• Periodic assessments
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Outpatient diagnostic tests and therapeutic services and $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
supplies x‑ray.
Covered services include, but aren't limited to:
$60 copay for each Medicare‑covered
• X‑rays therapeutic radiology service.
• Radiation (radium and isotope) therapy including
technician materials and supplies 0% coinsurance for Medicare‑covered
• Surgical supplies, such as dressings medical supplies.
• Splints, casts and other devices used to reduce fractures
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
and dislocations
lab service.
• Laboratory tests
• Blood – including storage and administration. Coverage of
$0 copay for Medicare‑covered and
whole blood and packed red cells starts with the first pint
non‑Medicare covered blood services.
of blood you need. All other components of blood are
covered starting with the first pint.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered CT
• Diagnostic non‑laboratory tests such as CT scans, MRIs,
scan.
EKGs, and PET scans when your doctor or other health
care provider orders them to treat a medical problem.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
• Other outpatient diagnostic tests
diagnostic radiology service other than
CT scans.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
diagnostic procedure and test.
*Amounts you pay for blood do not apply to your maximum
out‑of‑pocket amount.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 59
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Outpatient diagnostic tests and therapeutic services and
supplies (continued)
An additional cost share may apply if
you receive services from multiple
providers.
Outpatient hospital observation $0 copay for outpatient hospital
Observation services are hospital outpatient services given to observation services.
determine if you need to be admitted as an inpatient or can be
discharged.
For outpatient hospital observation services to be covered, they
must meet Medicare criteria and be considered reasonable and
necessary. Observation services are covered only when
provided by the order of a physician or another person
authorized by state licensure law and hospital staff bylaws to
admit patients to the hospital or order outpatient tests.
Note: Unless the provider has written an order to admit you as
an inpatient to the hospital, you're an outpatient and pay the
cost‑sharing amounts for outpatient hospital services. Even if
you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered
an outpatient. If you aren't sure if you're an outpatient, ask the
hospital staff.
Get more information in the Medicare fact sheet Medicare
Hospital Benefits This fact sheet is available at
Medicare.gov/publications/11435-Medicare-Hospital-
Benefits.pdf or by calling 1‑800‑MEDICARE (1‑800‑633‑4227).
TTY users call 1‑877‑486‑2048.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Outpatient hospital services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
We cover medically necessary services you get in the outpatient surgery at an outpatient
outpatient department of a hospital for diagnosis or treatment hospital facility.
of an illness or injury.
$0 copay for outpatient hospital
Covered services include, but aren't limited to: observation services.
• Services in an emergency department or outpatient clinic, $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
such as observation services or outpatient surgery diagnostic procedure and test.
• Laboratory and diagnostic tests billed by the hospital
• Mental health care, including care in a $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
partial‑hospitalization program, if a doctor certifies that lab service.
inpatient treatment would be required without it
• X‑rays and other radiology services billed by the hospital $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered CT
scan.
• Medical supplies such as splints and casts
• Certain drugs and biologicals you can’t give yourself
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
diagnostic radiology service other than
CT scans.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
60 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Outpatient hospital services (continued)
Note: Unless the provider has written an order to admit you as
an inpatient to the hospital, you're an outpatient and pay the $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
cost‑sharing amounts for outpatient hospital services. Even if x‑ray.
you stay in the hospital overnight, you might still be considered
an outpatient. If you aren't sure if you're an outpatient, ask the $60 copay for each Medicare‑covered
hospital staff. therapeutic radiology service.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider. $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
individual session for outpatient
psychiatrist service.
$10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
group session for outpatient psychiatrist
service.
$10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
individual session for outpatient mental
health service.
$10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
group session for outpatient mental
health service.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
partial hospitalization day.
$180 copay for each Medicare‑covered
intensive outpatient visit.
0% coinsurance for Medicare‑covered
medical supplies.
$35 copay for insulin. Insulin cost
sharing is subject to a coinsurance cap
of $35 for one‑month’s supply of insulin
and plan level deductibles do not apply.
0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for
chemotherapy drugs.
• Cost sharing shown is the
maximum you will pay for Part B
prescription drugs. You may pay
less for certain drugs.
0% ‑ 20% coinsurance for all other
drugs covered under Medicare Part B.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 61
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Outpatient hospital services (continued)
• Cost sharing shown is the
maximum you will pay for Part B
prescription drugs. You may pay
less for certain drugs.
Outpatient mental health care $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Covered services include: individual session for outpatient
psychiatrist service.
Mental health services provided by a state‑licensed psychiatrist
or doctor, clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, clinical $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
nurse specialist, licensed professional counselor (LPC), licensed group session for outpatient psychiatrist
marriage and family therapist (LMFT), nurse practitioner (NP), service.
physician assistant (PA), or other Medicare‑qualified mental
health care professional as allowed under applicable state laws. $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
individual session for outpatient mental
Please refer to the number on your member ID card for health service.
assistance with locating a participating provider.
$10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility group session for outpatient mental
of your provider. health service.
Outpatient rehabilitation services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Covered services include physical therapy, occupational occupational therapy service.
therapy, and speech language therapy.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Outpatient rehabilitation services are provided in various physical and speech therapy service.
outpatient settings, such as hospital outpatient departments,
independent therapist offices, and Comprehensive Outpatient
Rehabilitation Facilities (CORFs).
Outpatient substance use disorder services $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Our coverage is the same as Original Medicare’s which is individual session for outpatient
coverage for services that are provided in the outpatient substance use disorder service.
department of a hospital to patients who, for example, have
been discharged from an inpatient stay for the treatment of $10 copay for each Medicare‑covered
substance use disorder or who require treatment but do not group session for outpatient substance
require the availability and intensity of services found only in the use disorder service.
inpatient hospital setting. The coverage available for these
services is subject to the same rules generally applicable to the
coverage of outpatient hospital services.
Covered services include:
• Assessment, evaluation, and treatment for substance
use‑related disorders by a Medicare‑eligible provider to
quickly determine the severity of substance use and
identify the appropriate level of treatment.
• Brief interventions or advice focusing on increasing
insight and awareness regarding substance use and
motivation toward behavioral change.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
62 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Outpatient surgery, including services provided at hospital $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
outpatient facilities and ambulatory surgical centers outpatient surgery at an outpatient
Note: If you're having surgery in a hospital facility, you should hospital facility.
check with your provider about whether you'll be an inpatient or
outpatient. Unless the provider writes an order to admit you as $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
an inpatient to the hospital, you're an outpatient and pay the outpatient surgery at an ambulatory
cost‑sharing amounts for outpatient surgery. Even if you stay in surgical center.
the hospital overnight, you might still be considered an
outpatient.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Partial hospitalization services and Intensive outpatient $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
services partial hospitalization day.
Partial hospitalization is a structured program of active
psychiatric treatment provided as a hospital outpatient service $180 copay for each Medicare‑covered
or by a community mental health center that's more intense intensive outpatient visit.
than care you get in your doctor’s, therapist’s, licensed
marriage and family therapist’s (LMFT), or licensed professional
counselor’s office and is an alternative to inpatient
hospitalization.
Intensive outpatient service is a structured program of active
behavioral (mental) health therapy treatment provided in a
hospital outpatient department, a community mental health
center, a federally qualified health center, or a rural health clinic
that's more intense than care you get in your doctor’s,
therapist’s, licensed marriage and family therapist’s (LMFT), or
licensed professional counselor’s office but less intense than
partial hospitalization.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Physician/Practitioner services, including doctor’s office $0 copay for Medicare‑covered primary
visits care provider (PCP) services (including
Covered services include: urgently needed services).
• Medically necessary medical care or surgery services you Note: If you use a PCP (or PCP office)
get in a physician’s office, certified ambulatory surgical whose name is not printed on your
center, hospital outpatient department, or any other Member ID card, you may incur a higher
location cost share or your claims may be
• Consultation, diagnosis, and treatment by a specialist denied. If you would like to change your
• Basic hearing and balance exams performed by your PCP PCP, contact Member Services.
or specialist, if your doctor orders it to see if you need
medical treatment $0 copay for Medicare‑covered
• Certain telehealth services, as long as your provider can physician specialist services (including
offer these services via telehealth, including: surgery second opinion, home infusion
Primary care provider services professional services, and urgently
○
needed services).
Physician specialist services
○
Diabetes self‑management training services
○
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 63
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Physician/Practitioner services, including doctor’s office
visits (continued)
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
○ Kidney disease education services hearing exam.
Mental health services (individual sessions)
○
Certain additional telehealth services,
Mental health services (group sessions)
○
including:
Occupational therapy services
○
○ Opioid treatment services • $0 copay for each primary care
Outpatient substance use disorder services (individual provider service
○
sessions) • $0 copay for each physician
Outpatient substance use disorder services (group specialist service
○
sessions) • $0 copay for each diabetes
Physical and speech therapy services self‑management training service
○
Psychiatric services (individual sessions) • 20% coinsurance for each kidney
○
disease education service
Psychiatric services (group sessions)
○ • $10 copay for each individual
Urgently needed services
○ session for mental health service
• This coverage is in addition to the telehealth services • $10 copay for each group session
described below. For more details on your additional for mental health service
telehealth coverage, please review your Aetna Medicare • $0 copay for each occupational
Telehealth Coverage at AetnaMedicare.com/Telehealth therapy service
○ You have the option of getting these services through • $10 copay for each opioid
an in‑person visit or by telehealth. If you choose to get treatment program service
one of these services by telehealth, you must use a • $10 copay for each individual
network provider who offers the service by telehealth. session for outpatient substance
Not all providers offer telehealth services. use disorder service
○ You should contact your doctor for information on • $10 copay for each group session
what telehealth services they offer and how to for outpatient substance use
schedule a telehealth visit. disorder service
• Some telehealth services including consultation, • $0 copay for each physical
diagnosis, and treatment by a physician or practitioner, therapy and speech therapy
for patients in certain rural areas or other places approved service
by Medicare • $10 copay for each individual
• Telehealth services for monthly end‑stage renal session for psychiatric service
disease‑related visits for home dialysis members in a • $10 copay for each group session
hospital‑based or critical access hospital‑based renal for psychiatric service
dialysis center, renal dialysis facility, or the member’s • $0 copay for each urgently
home needed service
• Telehealth services to diagnose, evaluate, or treat
symptoms of a stroke regardless of your location
• Telehealth services for members with a substance use
disorder or co‑occurring mental health disorder,
regardless of their location
• Telehealth services for diagnosis, evaluation, and
treatment of mental health disorders if:
You have an in‑person visit within 6 months prior to
○
your first telehealth visit
You have an in‑person visit every 12 months while
○
receiving these telehealth services
This benefit is continued on the next page.
64 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Physician/Practitioner services, including doctor’s office
visits (continued)
Exceptions can be made to the above for certain
○
circumstances
• Telehealth services for mental health visits provided by
Rural Health Clinics and Federally Qualified Health
Centers
• Virtual check‑ins (for example, by phone or video chat)
with your doctor for 5‑10 minutes if:
You’re not a new patient and
○
The check‑in isn’t related to an office visit in the past 7
○
days and
The check‑in doesn’t lead to an office visit within 24
○
hours or the soonest available appointment
• Evaluation of video and/or images you send to your
doctor, and interpretation and follow‑up by your doctor
within 24 hours if:
You’re not a new patient and
○
The evaluation isn’t related to an office visit in the past
○
7 days and
The evaluation doesn’t lead to an office visit within 24
○
hours or the soonest available appointment
• Consultation your doctor has with other doctors by phone,
internet, or electronic health record
• Second opinion by another network provider prior to
surgery
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Podiatry services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Covered services include: podiatry visit.
• Diagnosis and the medical or surgical treatment of injuries
and diseases of the feet (such as hammer toe or heel
spurs)
• Routine foot care for members with certain medical
conditions affecting the lower limbs
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Pre‑exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV prevention
deductible for each Medicare‑covered
If you don’t have HIV, but your doctor or other health care
PrEP service.
practitioner determines you're at an increased risk for HIV, we
cover pre‑exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) medication and related
services.
If you qualify, covered services include:
• FDA‑approved oral or injectable PrEP medication. If
you’re getting an injectable drug, we also cover the fee for
injecting the drug.
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 65
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Pre‑exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV
prevention (continued)
• Up to 8 individual counseling sessions (including HIV risk
assessment, HIV risk reduction, and medication
adherence) every 12 months.
• Up to 8 HIV screenings every 12 months.
• A one‑time hepatitis B virus screening
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Prostate cancer screening exams
digital rectal exam.
For men aged 50 and older, covered services include the
following once every 12 months:
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
deductible for an annual PSA test.
• Digital rectal exam
• Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) test
Prosthetic and orthotic devices and related supplies 20% coinsurance for each
Devices (other than dental) that replace all or part of a body part Medicare‑covered prosthetic and
or function. These include, but aren't limited to testing, fitting, or orthotic device.
training in the use of prosthetic and orthotic devices; as well as
colostomy bags and supplies directly related to colostomy care, 0% coinsurance for Medicare‑covered
pacemakers, braces, prosthetic shoes, artificial limbs, and medical supplies.
breast prostheses (including a surgical brassiere after a
mastectomy). Includes certain supplies related to prosthetic
and orthotic devices, and repair and/or replacement of
prosthetic and orthotic devices. Also includes some coverage
following cataract removal or cataract surgery – go to Vision
Care later in this table for more detail.
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
Pulmonary rehabilitation services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Comprehensive programs of pulmonary rehabilitation are pulmonary rehabilitation service.
covered for members who have moderate to very severe
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and an order for
pulmonary rehabilitation from the doctor treating the chronic
respiratory disease.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Screening and counseling to reduce alcohol misuse
deductible for the Medicare‑covered
We cover one alcohol misuse screening for adults (including
screening and counseling to reduce
pregnant women) who misuse alcohol but aren’t alcohol
alcohol misuse preventive benefit.
dependent.
If you screen positive for alcohol misuse, you can get up to 4
brief face‑to‑face counseling sessions per year (if you’re
competent and alert during counseling) provided by a qualified
primary care doctor or practitioner in a primary care setting.
66 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
There is no coinsurance, coinsurance,
Screening for Hepatitis C Virus infection
copayment, or deductible for the
We cover one Hepatitis C screening if your primary care doctor
Medicare‑covered screening for the
or other qualified health care provider orders one and you meet
Hepatitis C Virus.
one of these conditions:
• You're at high risk because you use or have used illicit
injection drugs.
• You had a blood transfusion before 1992.
• You were born between 1945‑1965.
If you were born between 1945‑1965 and aren’t considered high
risk, we pay for a screening once. If you’re at high risk (for
example, you’ve continued to use illicit injection drugs since
your previous negative Hepatitis C screening test), we cover
yearly screenings.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Screening for lung cancer with low dose computed
deductible for the Medicare‑covered
tomography (LDCT)
counseling and shared decision‑making
For qualified people, a LDCT is covered every 12 months.
visit or for the LDCT.
Eligible members are people age 50–77 who have no signs or
symptoms of lung cancer, but who have a history of tobacco
smoking of at least 20 pack‑years and who currently smoke or
have quit smoking within the last 15 years, who get an order for
LDCT during a lung cancer screening counseling and shared
decision‑making visit that meets the Medicare criteria for such
visits and be furnished by a physician or qualified non‑physician
practitioner.
For LDCT lung cancer screenings after the initial LDCT
screening: the members must get an order for LDCT lung
cancer screening, which may be furnished during any
appropriate visit with a physician or qualified non‑physician
practitioner. If a physician or qualified non‑physician
practitioner elects to provide a lung cancer screening
counseling and shared decision‑making visit for later lung
cancer screenings with LDCT, the visit must meet the Medicare
criteria for such visits.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Screening for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and
deductible for the Medicare‑covered
counseling to prevent STIs
screening for STIs and counseling for
We cover sexually transmitted infection (STI) screenings for
STIs preventive benefit.
chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and Hepatitis B. These
screenings are covered for pregnant women and for certain
people who are at increased risk for an STI when the tests are
ordered by a primary care provider. We cover these tests once
every 12 months or at certain times during pregnancy.
We also cover up to 2 individual 20 to 30 minute, face‑to‑face
high‑intensity behavioral counseling sessions each year for
sexually active adults at increased risk for STIs. We only cover
these counseling sessions as a preventive service if they are
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 67
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Screening for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and
counseling to prevent STIs (continued)
provided by a primary care provider and take place in a primary
care setting, such as a doctor’s office.
Services to treat kidney disease 20% coinsurance for each
Covered services include: Medicare‑covered kidney disease
education session.
• Kidney disease education services to teach kidney care
and help members make informed decisions about their 20% coinsurance for Medicare‑covered
care. For members with stage IV chronic kidney disease outpatient dialysis, self‑dialysis training,
when referred by their doctor, we cover up to 6 sessions certain home support services, and
of kidney disease education services per lifetime home dialysis equipment and supplies.
• Outpatient dialysis treatments (including dialysis
treatments when temporarily out of the service area, as
explained in Chapter 3, or when your provider for this $0 per stay for each medically
service is temporarily unavailable or inaccessible) necessary covered inpatient stay. Cost
• Inpatient dialysis treatments (if you’re admitted as an sharing is charged for each medically
inpatient to a hospital for special care) necessary covered inpatient stay.
• Self‑dialysis training (includes training for you and anyone
helping you with your home dialysis treatments) Your inpatient benefits will begin on day
• Home dialysis equipment and supplies one each time you are admitted within
• Certain home support services (such as, when necessary, or to a specific facility type. A transfer
visits by trained dialysis workers to check on your home within or to a facility including Inpatient
dialysis, to help in emergencies, and check your dialysis Rehabilitation facilities, Long‑Term
equipment and water supply) Acute Care (LTAC) facilities, Inpatient
Acute Care facilities, and Inpatient
Certain drugs for dialysis are covered under Medicare Part B. Psychiatric facilities, is considered a new
For information about coverage for Part B Drugs, please go to admission.
Medicare Part B drugs in this table.
If you get authorized inpatient care at an
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility out‑of‑network hospital after your
of your provider. emergency condition is stabilized, your
cost is the cost sharing you'd pay at a
network hospital.
Skilled nursing facility (SNF) care $0 per day, days 1‑20; $50 per day, days
(For a definition of skilled nursing facility care, go to Chapter 12. 21‑100 for each Medicare‑covered SNF
Skilled nursing facilities are sometimes called SNFs.) stay.
Days covered: up to 100 days per benefit period. A prior hospital A benefit period begins the day you go
stay is not required. We will only cover your stay if you meet into a hospital or skilled nursing facility.
certain Medicare guidelines and your stay is medically The benefit period ends when you
necessary. haven’t received any inpatient hospital
care (or skilled care in a SNF) for 60 days
Covered services include but aren’t limited to: in a row. If you go into a hospital or a
skilled nursing facility after one benefit
• Semiprivate room (or a private room if medically period has ended, a new benefit period
necessary) begins. There is no limit to the number of
• Meals, including special diets benefit periods you can have.
• Skilled nursing services
This benefit is continued on the next page.
68 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Skilled nursing facility (SNF) care (continued)
• Physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech
therapy
• Drugs administered to you as part of our plan of care (this
includes substances that are naturally present in the
body, such as blood clotting factors.)
• Blood – including storage and administration. Coverage of
whole blood and packed red cells starts with the first pint
of blood you need. All other components of blood are
covered starting with the first pint.
• Medical and surgical supplies ordinarily provided by SNFs
• Laboratory tests ordinarily provided by SNFs
• X‑rays and other radiology services ordinarily provided by
SNFs
• Use of appliances such as wheelchairs ordinarily provided
by SNFs
• Physician/Practitioner services
Generally, you get SNF care from network facilities. Under
certain conditions listed below, you may be able to pay
in‑network cost sharing for a facility that isn’t a network
provider, if the facility accepts our plan’s amounts for payment.
• A nursing home or continuing care retirement community
where you were living right before you went to the
hospital (as long as it provides skilled nursing facility care)
• A SNF where your spouse or domestic partner is living at
the time you leave the hospital
Prior authorization may be required and is the responsibility
of your provider.
*Amounts you pay for blood do not apply to your maximum
out‑of‑pocket amount.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Smoking and tobacco use cessation (counseling to stop
deductible for the Medicare‑covered
smoking or tobacco use)
smoking and tobacco use cessation
Smoking and tobacco use cessation counseling is covered for
preventive benefits.
outpatient and hospitalized patients who meet these criteria:
$0 copay for each additional
• Use tobacco, regardless of whether they exhibit signs or
non‑Medicare covered smoking and
symptoms of tobacco‑related disease
tobacco use cessation visit.
• Are competent and alert during counseling
• A qualified physician or other Medicare‑recognized
practitioner provides counseling
We cover 2 cessation attempts per year (each attempt may
include a maximum of 4 intermediate or intensive sessions, with
the patient getting up to 8 sessions per year.)
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer:
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 69
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Smoking and tobacco use cessation (counseling to stop
smoking or tobacco use) (continued)
• Additional (non‑Medicare covered) individual and group
face‑to‑face intermediate and intensive counseling
sessions: unlimited visits every year
Supervised Exercise Therapy (SET) $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
SET is covered for members who have symptomatic peripheral Supervised Exercise Therapy service.
artery disease (PAD) and a referral for PAD from the physician
responsible for PAD treatment.
Up to 36 sessions over a 12‑week period are covered if the SET
program requirements are met.
The SET program must:
• Consist of sessions lasting 30‑60 minutes, comprising a
therapeutic exercise‑training program for PAD in patients
with claudication
• Be conducted in a hospital outpatient setting or a
physician’s office
• Be delivered by qualified auxiliary personnel necessary to
ensure benefits exceed harms and who are trained in
exercise therapy for PAD
• Be under the direct supervision of a physician, physician
assistant, or nurse practitioner/clinical nurse specialist
who must be trained in both basic and advanced life
support techniques
SET may be covered beyond 36 sessions over 12 weeks for an
additional 36 sessions over an extended period of time if
deemed medically necessary by a health care provider.
Urgently needed services $0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
A plan‑covered service requiring immediate medical attention urgent care facility visit.
that’s not an emergency is an urgently needed service if either
you’re temporarily outside our plan’s service area, or, even if (See Physician/Practitioner services,
you’re inside our plan’s service area, it’s unreasonable given including doctor’s office visits for
your time, place, and circumstances to get this service from information about urgently needed
network providers. Our plan must cover urgently needed services provided in a physician’s
services and only charge you in‑network cost sharing. office.)
Examples of urgently needed services are unforeseen medical
illnesses and injuries, or unexpected flare‑ups of existing $150 copay for each urgent care visit
conditions. Medically necessary routine provider visits (like worldwide (i.e., outside the United
annual checkups) aren’t considered urgently needed even if States). Cost sharing is not waived if you
you’re outside our plan’s service area or our plan network is are admitted to the hospital.
temporarily unavailable.
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer:
This benefit is continued on the next page.
70 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Urgently needed services (continued)
• Urgent care (worldwide)
$250,000 annual maximum benefit for worldwide emergency
care, emergency ambulance, and urgently needed care.
You may have to pay the provider at the time of service and
submit for reimbursement. You will be reimbursed up to the
annual maximum benefit amount less any applicable copay or
cost share.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
Vision care
eye exam. If you receive additional
Covered services include:
services during the eye exam, such as
but not limited to lab, diagnostic testing,
• Outpatient physician services for the diagnosis and
and/or specialist treatment, you may
treatment of diseases and injuries of the eye, including
also be responsible for a cost share for
treatment for age‑related macular degeneration. Original
those additional services received.
Medicare doesn’t cover routine eye exams (eye
refractions) for eyeglasses/contacts.
$0 copay for each Medicare‑covered
• For people who are at high risk for glaucoma, we cover
glaucoma screening.
one glaucoma screening each year. People at high risk for
glaucoma include people with a family history of
$0 copay for the initial diabetic eye
glaucoma, people with diabetes, African Americans who
exam each year.
are age 50 and older and Hispanic Americans who are 65
or older.
$0 copay for each follow‑up diabetic
• For people with diabetes, screening for diabetic
eye exam.
retinopathy is covered once per year.
• One pair of eyeglasses or contact lenses after each
$0 copay for Medicare‑covered
cataract surgery that includes insertion of an intraocular
eyewear.
lens. If you have 2 separate cataract operations, you can’t
reserve the benefit after the first surgery and purchase 2
$0 copay for one non‑Medicare covered
eyeglasses after the second surgery.
routine eye exam with an EyeMed
provider.
In addition to Medicare‑covered benefits, we also offer:
• Non‑Medicare covered eye exams (refractions): one If you receive additional services during
exam every year the eye exam, such as but not limited to
• Follow‑up diabetic eye exam lab, diagnostic testing, and/or specialist
treatment, you may also be responsible
for a cost share for those additional
*Amounts you pay for non‑Medicare covered routine eye
services received.
exams do not apply to your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
*Amounts you pay for follow‑up diabetic eye exams do not
apply to your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
Vision care — eyewear (non‑Medicare covered) Covered prescription eyewear:
With this plan you get an annual benefit amount (allowance) of • Contact lenses: $0 copay
$250 every year for prescription eyewear including: • Eyeglasses (lenses and frames): $0
copay
• Contact lenses • Eyeglass lenses: $0 copay
• Eyeglasses including lenses and frames • Eyeglass frames: $0 copay
• Upgrades (including UV protection and
This benefit is continued on the next page.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 71
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Covered Service What you pay
Vision care — eyewear (non‑Medicare covered) (continued)
scratch coating): $0 copay
• Eyeglass lenses
• Eyeglass frames
• Upgrades (including UV protection and scratch coating)
We have teamed up with EyeMed to provide this benefit.
You can only use your benefit amount (allowance) to purchase
covered eyewear at an EyeMed provider. Your benefit amount
is applied at the time of purchase. If your eyewear purchase is
more than your benefit amount, you’ll just need to pay the
difference.
To find a participating EyeMed provider, you can search online
at AetnaMedicareVision.com or call Aetna vision customer
service at 1‑844‑486‑3485 (TTY: 711).
*Amounts you pay for additional eyewear services do not apply
to your maximum out‑of‑pocket amount.
There is no coinsurance, copayment, or
Welcome to Medicare preventive visit
deductible for the Welcome to Medicare
Our plan covers the one‑time Welcome to Medicare preventive
preventive visit.
visit. The visit includes a review of your health, as well as
education and counseling about preventive services you need
$0 copay for a Medicare‑covered EKG
(including certain screenings and shots (or vaccines)), and
following the Welcome to Medicare
referrals for other care if needed.
preventive visit.
Important: We cover the Welcome to Medicare preventive visit
only within the first 12 months you have Medicare Part B. When
you make your appointment, let your doctor’s office know you
want to schedule your Welcome to Medicare preventive visit.
Wigs $0 copay for a wig.
You get a $400 benefit amount (allowance) every year for
covered wigs needed for hair loss due to chemotherapy. You
can purchase wigs through a durable medical equipment (DME)
supplier or a supplier of your choice. You are responsible for any
costs over the benefit amount.
To find a DME supplier you can call the phone number on your
member ID card or visit our online directory at aet.na/search. If
you choose to use a supplier that is not in the DME network, you
will need to pay out‑of‑pocket and submit a claim for
reimbursement along with the receipt. You will only be
reimbursed up to the benefit amount. You can find the
reimbursement form at AetnaMedicare.com/forms.
72 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
2026 Deluxe EPO POS Mandatory
Dental Schedule of Benefits
Our plan offers supplemental dental benefits. This Schedule of Benefits describes your covered benefits
and services. You are responsible for cost shares listed in the table below when you’re treated by a dentist.
If you get a service not listed in the table, you will have to pay the full cost. You can take this document to
verify your coverage with your dentist. To locate a participating dentist, you can call Member Services or
go online at AetnaMedicare.com/dental.
Preventive Services
Maximum Benefit: None
What you must pay when you get these services
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D0120 periodic oral evaluation ‑ established Two procedures $0 50%
patient from this code
group per calendar
D0150 comprehensive oral evaluation ‑ new or $0 50%
year
established patient
D0140 limited oral evaluation ‑ problem Two procedures $0 50%
focused from this code
group per calendar
D0461 testing for cracked tooth $0 50%
year
D0180 comprehensive periodontal evaluation ‑ $0 50%
new or established patient
D1110 prophylaxis ‑ adult two procedures per $0 50%
calendar year
D0270 bitewing ‑ single radiographic image One set of x‑rays $0 50%
from this code
D0272 bitewings ‑ two radiographic images $0 50%
group per calendar
D0273 bitewings ‑ three radiographic images $0 50%
year
D0274 bitewings ‑ four radiographic images $0 50%
D0373 intraoral tomosynthesis – bitewing $0 50%
radiographic image
D0220 intraoral ‑ periapical first radiographic N/A $0 50%
image
D0230 intraoral ‑ periapical each additional $0 50%
radiographic image
D0374 intraoral tomosynthesis – periapical $0 50%
radiographic image
D0210 intraoral – comprehensive series of One procedure from $0 50%
radiographic images this code group
every three years
D0330 panoramic radiographic image $0 50%
D0372 intraoral tomosynthesis – $0 50%
comprehensive series of radiographic
images
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 73
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Comprehensive Services
Maximum Benefit: $1,500
What you must pay when you get these services
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D2140 amalgam ‑ one surface, primary or Two procedures 20% 50%
permanent from this code
group per tooth per
D2150 amalgam ‑ two surfaces, primary or 20% 50%
calendar year
permanent
D2160 amalgam ‑ three surfaces, primary or 20% 50%
permanent
D2161 amalgam ‑ four or more surfaces, 20% 50%
primary or permanent
D2330 resin‑based composite ‑ one surface, 20% 50%
anterior
D2331 resin‑based composite ‑ two surfaces, 20% 50%
anterior
D2332 resin‑based composite ‑ three surfaces, 20% 50%
anterior
D2335 resin‑based composite ‑ four or more 20% 50%
surfaces (anterior)
D2390 resin‑based composite crown, anterior 20% 50%
D2391 resin‑based composite ‑ one surface, 20% 50%
posterior
D2392 resin‑based composite ‑ two surfaces, 20% 50%
posterior
D2393 resin‑based composite ‑ three surfaces, 20% 50%
posterior
D2394 resin‑based composite ‑ four or more 20% 50%
surfaces, posterior
D2910 re‑cement or re‑bond inlay, onlay, One procedure 20% 50%
veneer or partial coverage restoration from this code
group per tooth per
D2915 re‑cement or re‑bond indirectly 20% 50%
calendar year
fabricated or prefabricated post and
core
D2920 re‑cement or re‑bond crown 20% 50%
D3310 endodontic therapy, anterior tooth One procedure 20% 50%
(excluding final restoration) from this code
group per tooth per
D3320 endodontic therapy, premolar tooth 20% 50%
lifetime
(excluding final restoration)
D3330 endodontic therapy, molar tooth 20% 50%
(excluding final restoration)
D3346 retreatment of previous root canal One procedure 20% 50%
therapy ‑ anterior from this group per
tooth per lifetime
D3347 retreatment of previous root canal 20% 50%
therapy ‑ premolar
74 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D3348 retreatment of previous root canal 20% 50%
therapy ‑ molar
D4341 periodontal scaling and root planing ‑ One procedure 20% 50%
four or more teeth per quadrant from this code
group per quad
D4342 periodontal scaling and root planing ‑ 20% 50%
every two years
one to three teeth per quadrant
D4910 periodontal maintenance two per calendar 20% 50%
year
D7140 extraction, erupted tooth or exposed one extraction per 20% 50%
root (elevation and/or forceps removal) tooth per lifetime
D7210 extraction, erupted tooth requiring 20% 50%
removal of bone and/or sectioning of
tooth, and including elevation of
mucoperiosteal flap if indicated
D7220 removal of impacted tooth ‑ soft tissue 20% 50%
D7250 removal of residual tooth roots (cutting 20% 50%
procedure)
D9110 palliative treatment of dental pain – per N/A 20% 50%
visit
D2950 core buildup, including any pins when One procedure 50% 70%
required from this code
group per tooth
D2952 post and core in addition to crown, 50% 70%
every 5 years
indirectly fabricated
D2953 each additional indirectly fabricated 50% 70%
post ‑ same tooth
D2954 prefabricated post and core in addition 50% 70%
to crown
D2957 each additional prefabricated post ‑ 50% 70%
same tooth
D2740 crown ‑ porcelain/ceramic One procedure 50% 70%
from this code
D2750 crown ‑ porcelain fused to high noble 50% 70%
group per tooth
metal
every 5 years
D2751 crown ‑ porcelain fused to 50% 70%
predominantly base metal
D2752 crown ‑ porcelain fused to noble metal 50% 70%
D2753 crown ‑ porcelain fused to titanium and 50% 70%
titanium alloys
D2780 crown ‑ 3/4 cast high noble metal 50% 70%
D2781 crown ‑ 3/4 cast predominantly base 50% 70%
metal
D2782 crown ‑ 3/4 cast noble metal 50% 70%
D2783 crown ‑ 3/4 porcelain/ceramic 50% 70%
D2790 crown ‑ full cast high noble metal 50% 70%
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 75
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D2791 crown ‑ full cast predominantly base 50% 70%
metal
D2792 crown ‑ full cast noble metal 50% 70%
D2980 crown repair necessitated by one per tooth per 50% 70%
restorative material failure calendar year
D4355 full mouth debridement to enable a one per lifetime 50% 70%
comprehensive periodontal evaluation
and diagnosis on a subsequent visit
D5110 complete denture ‑ maxillary One procedure 50% 70%
from this code
D5120 complete denture ‑ mandibular 50% 70%
group, including
D5130 immediate denture ‑ maxillary 50% 70%
D5877 and D5878,
D5140 immediate denture ‑ mandibular per arch every 5 50% 70%
years
D5211 maxillary partial denture – resin base One procedure 50% 70%
(including, retentive/clasping materials, from this code
rests, and teeth) group, per arch
every 5 years
D5212 mandibular partial denture – resin base 50% 70%
(including, retentive/clasping materials,
rests, and teeth)
D5213 maxillary partial denture ‑ cast metal 50% 70%
framework with resin denture bases
(including retentive/clasping materials,
rests and teeth)
D5214 mandibular partial denture ‑ cast metal 50% 70%
framework with resin denture bases
(including retentive/clasping materials,
rests and teeth)
D5225 maxillary partial denture ‑ flexible base 50% 70%
(including retentive/clasping materials,
rests, and teeth)
D5226 mandibular partial denture ‑ flexible 50% 70%
base (including retentive/clasping
materials, rests, and teeth)
D5282 removable unilateral partial denture – 50% 70%
one piece cast metal (including
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and
teeth), maxillary
D5283 removable unilateral partial denture – 50% 70%
one piece cast metal (including
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and
teeth), mandibular
D5284 removable unilateral partial denture – 50% 70%
one piece flexible base (including
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and
teeth) – per quadrant
76 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D5286 removable unilateral partial denture – 50% 70%
one piece resin (including
retentive/clasping materials, rests, and
teeth) – per quadrant
D5410 adjust complete denture ‑ maxillary as needed 50% 70%
D5411 adjust complete denture ‑ mandibular 50% 70%
D5421 adjust partial denture ‑ maxillary 50% 70%
D5422 adjust partial denture ‑ mandibular 50% 70%
D5511 repair broken complete denture base, 50% 70%
mandibular
D5512 repair broken complete denture base, 50% 70%
maxillary
D5520 replace missing or broken teeth – 50% 70%
complete denture – per tooth
D5611 repair resin partial denture base, 50% 70%
mandibular
D5612 repair resin partial denture base, 50% 70%
maxillary
D5621 repair cast partial framework, 50% 70%
mandibular
D5622 repair cast partial framework, maxillary 50% 70%
D5630 repair or replace broken retentive 50% 70%
clasping materials – per tooth
D5640 replace missing or broken teeth – partial 50% 70%
denture – per tooth
D5650 add tooth to existing partial denture – 50% 70%
per tooth
D5660 add clasp to existing partial denture ‑ 50% 70%
per tooth
D5670 replace all teeth and acrylic on cast 50% 70%
metal framework (maxillary)
D5671 replace all teeth and acrylic on cast 50% 70%
metal framework (mandibular)
D5710 rebase complete maxillary denture 50% 70%
D5711 rebase complete mandibular denture 50% 70%
D5720 rebase maxillary partial denture 50% 70%
D5721 rebase mandibular partial denture 50% 70%
D5730 reline complete maxillary denture 50% 70%
(direct)
D5731 reline complete mandibular denture 50% 70%
(direct)
D5740 reline maxillary partial denture (direct) 50% 70%
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 77
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D5741 reline mandibular partial denture 50% 70%
(direct)
D5750 reline complete maxillary denture 50% 70%
(indirect)
D5751 reline complete mandibular denture 50% 70%
(indirect)
D5760 reline maxillary partial denture 50% 70%
(indirect)
D5761 reline mandibular partial denture 50% 70%
(indirect)
D5876 add metal substructure to acrylic 50% 70%
complete denture ‑ per arch
D5877 duplication of complete denture ‑ One procedure 50% 70%
maxillary from this code
group including
D5878 duplication of complete denture ‑ 50% 70%
D5110, D5120,
mandibular
D5130, and D5140,
per arch every 5
years
D6980 fixed partial denture repair necessitated N/A 50% 70%
by restorative material failure
D6210 pontic ‑ cast high noble metal One procedure 50% 70%
from this code
D6211 pontic ‑ cast predominantly base metal 50% 70%
group per tooth
D6212 pontic ‑ cast noble metal 50% 70%
every 5 years
D6240 pontic ‑ porcelain fused to high noble 50% 70%
metal
D6241 pontic ‑ porcelain fused to 50% 70%
predominantly base metal
D6242 pontic ‑ porcelain fused to noble metal 50% 70%
D6243 pontic ‑ porcelain fused to titanium and 50% 70%
titanium alloys
D6245 pontic ‑ porcelain/ceramic 50% 70%
D6250 pontic ‑ resin with high noble metal 50% 70%
D6251 pontic ‑ resin with predominantly base 50% 70%
metal
D6252 pontic ‑ resin with noble metal 50% 70%
D6545 retainer ‑ cast metal for resin bonded One procedure 50% 70%
fixed prosthesis from this code
group per tooth
D6548 retainer ‑ porcelain/ceramic for resin 50% 70%
every 5 years
bonded fixed prosthesis
D6720 retainer crown ‑ resin with high noble 50% 70%
metal
D6721 retainer crown ‑ resin with 50% 70%
predominantly base metal
78 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D6722 retainer crown ‑ resin with noble metal 50% 70%
D6740 retainer crown ‑ porcelain/ceramic 50% 70%
D6750 retainer crown ‑ porcelain fused to high 50% 70%
noble metal
D6751 retainer crown ‑ porcelain fused to 50% 70%
predominantly base metal
D6752 retainer crown ‑ porcelain fused to 50% 70%
noble metal
D6753 retainer crown ‑ porcelain fused to 50% 70%
titanium and titanium alloys
D6780 retainer crown ‑ 3/4 cast high noble 50% 70%
metal
D6781 retainer crown ‑ 3/4 cast predominantly 50% 70%
base metal
D6782 retainer crown ‑ 3/4 cast noble metal 50% 70%
D6783 retainer crown ‑ 3/4 porcelain/ceramic 50% 70%
D6784 retainer crown ¾ ‑ titanium and 50% 70%
titanium alloys
D6790 retainer crown ‑ full cast high noble 50% 70%
metal
D6791 retainer crown ‑ full cast predominantly 50% 70%
base metal
D6792 retainer crown ‑ full cast noble metal 50% 70%
D7230 removal of impacted tooth ‑ partially once extraction per 50% 70%
bony tooth per lifetime
D7240 removal of impacted tooth ‑ completely 50% 70%
bony
D7241 removal of impacted tooth ‑ completely 50% 70%
bony, with unusual surgical
complications
D9128 photobiomodulation therapy ‑ first 15 N/A 50% 70%
minute increment, or any portion
thereof
D9129 photobiomodulation therapy ‑ each N/A 50% 70%
subsequent 15 minute increment, or any
portion thereof
D9219 evaluation for moderate sedation, deep N/A 50% 70%
sedation or general anesthesia
D9222 administration of deep 50% 70%
sedation/general anesthesia – first 15
minute increment, or any portion
thereof
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 79
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
CDT Description Frequency in‑network out‑of‑network
Code
D9223 administration of deep 50% 70%
sedation/general anesthesia – each
subsequent 15 minute increment, or any
portion thereof
D9224 administration of general anesthesia 50% 70%
with advanced airway – first 15 minute
increment, or any portion thereof
D9225 administration of general anesthesia 50% 70%
with advanced airway – each
subsequent 15 minute increment, or any
portion thereof
D9239 administration of moderate sedation – 50% 70%
intravenous ‑ first 15 minute increment,
or any portion thereof
D9243 administration of moderate sedation – 50% 70%
intravenous ‑ each subsequent 15
minute increment, or any portion
thereof
D9246 administration of moderate sedation – 50% 70%
non‑intravenous parenteral – first 15
minute increment, or any portion
thereof
D9247 administration of moderate sedation – 50% 70%
non‑intravenous parenteral – each
subsequent 15 minute increment, or any
portion thereof
D9613 infiltration of sustained release 50% 70%
therapeutic drug, per quadrant
Out‑of‑pocket costs
You will be responsible for payment of services and charges billed by a provider that exceed coverage
limitations. You may also be required to pay your cost share at the time of service. Billing arrangements
are between you and the provider. In addition, if you obtain services from a dental provider that is not part
of our network, you may be required to pay up to the cost of the service at the time services are provided.
And then submit for reimbursement. The reimbursement request will be reviewed and a decision will be
made based upon the information provided. Reimbursement is not guaranteed. You can submit a Medical
Member Reimbursement Form to Aetna Medicare, PO Box 981106, El Paso, TX 79998‑1106. You can get
this form by calling Member Services or you can fill out and submit the form online at
AetnaMedicare.com/forms. In addition, if you obtain services from a dental provider that is not part of
our network, you will be responsible for payment of the full cost of the services.
Limitations & Exclusions
1. Coverage is limited to the services and service frequencies listed in the Schedule of Benefits. If a
service is not listed, it is not covered.
2. Any dental services received outside of the U.S. or U.S. territories are not covered under the
supplemental dental benefit.
3. Fees related to missed appointments, preparing or copying dental reports, duplication of x rays,
itemized bills or claim forms are not covered.
80 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
4. Treatment for injuries or conditions covered by Workers’ Compensation or employer liability laws,
and treatment provided without cost to you by any municipality, county, or other political subdivision
is not covered.
5. Treatment as a result of civil insurrection, duty as a member of the armed forces of any state or
country, engaging in an act of declared or undeclared war, intentional or unintentional nuclear
explosion or other release of nuclear energy, whether in peacetime or wartime, is not covered.
6. Any treatment covered under an individual or group medical plan, auto insurance, no fault auto
insurance or uninsured motorist policy, to the extent permitted by federal or state statute, is not
covered.
7. Orthodontic and all orthodontic related services are not covered
8. Implants and all implant related services are not covered
9. Maxillofacial prosthetics are not covered
10. Dental services performed for cosmetic and/or aesthetic reasons are not covered
11. Tooth bleaching and/or enamel microabrasion services are not covered
12. Unspecified services by report (Dental codes: D##99) are not covered
13. Dental services related to temporomandibular joint syndrome (TMJ) are not covered, unless the
related dental code is listed in the schedule of benefits
14. Elective services are not covered
15. General anesthesia or conscious sedation is not a covered service unless it is based on clinical
review of documentation provided and administered by a dentist or health care practitioner in
conjunction with covered oral surgical procedures, periodontal and osseous surgical procedures, or
periarticular surgical procedures for covered services.
16. Altering vertical dimension of teeth, or restoration/maintenance of occlusion including bite
registration or bite analysis are not covered.
17. Splinting teeth, including multiple abutments, or any services to stabilize periodontally weakened
teeth are not covered.
18. Replacing tooth structures lost as a result of abrasion, attrition, erosion or abfraction are not
covered.
19. Plan frequency limitations will still apply when there is a replacement of a device or appliance that is
lost, missing, stolen, or damaged due to abuse, misuse or neglect.
20. Dental procedures are only covered when performed by a dentist licensed in the US or any US
territory.
21. Periodontal maintenance is not covered unless there is a history of scaling and root planing or
surgical periodontal therapy.
22. Denture adjustments performed within 6 months of denture placement/installation, reline, or rebase
are not covered.
23. Denture reline and rebase, if listed as covered in your schedule of benefits, performed within 6
months following the placement of a complete or immediate denture are not covered.
24. Tissue conditioning performed within 6 months of denture placement, reline, or rebase are not
covered.
25. For covered dental procedures listed in your schedule of benefits, the treatment date for billing
purposes is defined by completion of specific procedures.
For removable dentures (complete and partial), this is the delivery date. For inlays, onlays, crowns,
veneers and bridges, it's the date of final cementation. For root canals, it's the date the final fill is
placed.
26. Procedures that are considered experimental, investigational or unproven are not covered. This
includes pharmacological regimens not accepted by the American Dental Association Council on
dental therapeutics.
27. If this policy is terminated or the covered dental services for this plan change, this plan will not cover
ongoing care or treatment. This includes all multi‑appointment procedures.
28. Services and supplies provided in connection with treatment or care that is not covered under the
plan are not covered.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 81
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Medical Necessity
Your plan covers clinically appropriate dental care services. This is a requirement for you to receive a
covered benefit under this plan. Dental care services that we determine a provider using prudent clinical
judgment would provide to a patient for the purpose of preventing, evaluating, diagnosing or treating an
illness, injury, disease or its symptoms, and that we determine are:
1. Clinically appropriate, in terms of type, frequency, extent, site and duration, and considered
effective for the patient’s illness, injury or disease
2. Not primarily for the convenience of the patient, dentist, or other health care provider
3. Not more costly than an alternative service or sequence of services at least as likely to produce the
same benefit or diagnostic results for the diagnosis or treatment of that patient’s illness, injury or
disease.
Medical necessity is determined using criteria that are:
• Consistent with generally accepted standards of medical and dental practice
• Based on evidence from peer‑reviewed literature and clinical guidelines
• Applied uniformly and without regard to cost considerations
Alternate Benefits
The alternate benefit provision applies when more than one dental service is suitable to treat a dental
condition. In these cases, Aetna will cover the lower‑cost treatment option (alternate benefit). That means
you are responsible for any coinsurance amounts applicable to the alternate benefit, plus any difference in
cost between the alternate benefit and the actual service received. To ensure you understand your
treatment options and costs, you can work with your dental provider to submit an advance claim review.
An advance claim review
The purpose of an advance claim review is to provide an estimate, of what we may pay for proposed
services. Knowing ahead of time which services are eligible dental services and what your plan may pay
helps you and your dentist make informed decisions about the care you are considering. The estimate is
not a guarantee of coverage and payment. In estimating the amount of benefits payable, we will look at
alternate procedures, services, or courses of treatment for the dental condition in question in order to
meet the expected result. The estimate is voluntary.
When to get an advance claim review
To understand your cost share for a course of dental treatment you can request an advance claim review.
Here are the steps for getting an advance claim review:
1. Ask your dentist to write down a full description of the treatment you need. They must either use an
Aetna claim form or an American Dental Association (ADA) approved claim form.
2. Your dentist should send the form to us before treating you.
3. We may request supporting images and other diagnostic records.
4. Once all of the information has been gathered, we will review the proposed treatment plan and
provide you and your dentist with a statement outlining the estimated benefits payable and your
out‑of‑pocket costs.
5. You and your dentist can then decide how to proceed.
What is a course of dental treatment? A course of dental treatment is a planned program of one or more
services or supplies. The services or supplies are provided by one or more dentists to treat a dental
condition that was diagnosed by the attending dentist as a result of an oral examination. A course of
treatment starts on the date your dentist first renders a service to correct or treat the diagnosed dental
condition.
82 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
SECTION 3 Services that aren't covered by our plan (exclusions)
This section tells you what services are excluded from Medicare coverage and therefore, aren’t covered
by this plan.
The chart below lists services and items that either aren’t covered under any condition or are covered only
under specific conditions.
If you get services that are excluded (not covered), you must pay for them yourself, except under the
specific conditions listed below. Even if you get the excluded services at an emergency facility, the
excluded services are still not covered and our plan won’t pay for them. The only exception is if the service
is appealed and decided upon appeal to be a medical service that we should have paid for or covered
because of your specific situation. (For information about appealing a decision we made to not cover a
medical service, go to Chapter 9, Section 5.3.)
Services not covered by Covered only under specific conditions
Medicare
Acupuncture
• Available for people with chronic low back pain under certain
circumstances.
• Our plan provides some additional coverage for acupuncture as
described in the Medical Benefits Chart.
Cosmetic surgery or
procedures • Covered in cases of an accidental injury or for improvement of the
functioning of a malformed body member.
• Covered for all stages of reconstruction for a breast after a
mastectomy, as well as for the unaffected breast to produce a
symmetrical appearance.
Custodial care Not covered under any condition.
Custodial care is personal care
that doesn’t require the
continuing attention of trained
medical or paramedical
personnel, such as care that
helps you with activities of
daily living, such as bathing or
dressing.
Experimental medical and
surgical procedures, • May be covered by Original Medicare under a Medicare‑approved
equipment and medications. clinical research study or by our plan.
• (Go to Chapter 3, Section 5 for more information on clinical
Experimental procedures and research studies.)
items are those items and
procedures determined by
Original Medicare to not be
generally accepted by the
medical community.
2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS) 83
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Services not covered by Covered only under specific conditions
Medicare
Fees charged for care by Not covered under any condition.
your immediate relatives or
members of your household.
Full‑time nursing care in your Not covered under any condition.
home.
Home‑delivered meals Not covered under any condition.
Homemaker services include Not covered under any condition.
basic household help,
including light housekeeping
or light meal preparation.
Naturopath services (uses Not covered under any condition.
natural or alternative
treatments).
Non‑routine dental care
• Dental care required to treat illness or injury may be covered as
inpatient or outpatient care.
Orthopedic shoes or
supportive devices for the • Shoes that are part of a leg brace and are included in the cost of
feet the brace. Orthopedic or therapeutic shoes for people with diabetic
foot disease.
Personal items in your room Not covered under any condition.
at a hospital or a skilled
nursing facility, such as a
telephone or a television.
Private room in a hospital
• Covered only when medically necessary.
Reversal of sterilization Not covered under any condition.
procedures and or
non‑prescription
contraceptive supplies.
Routine chiropractic care
• Manual manipulation of the spine to correct a subluxation is
covered.
• Our plan provides some additional coverage for routine
chiropractic care as described in the Medical Benefits Chart.
Routine dental care, such as
cleanings, fillings or • Our plan provides some coverage for dental services as described
dentures. in the Medical Benefits Chart.
84 2026 Evidence of Coverage for Aetna Medicare Prime (HMO-POS)
Chapter 4. Medical Benefits Chart (what's covered and what you pay)
Services not covered by Covered only under specific conditions
Medicare
Routine eye examinations,
eyeglasses, radial • One pair of eyeglasses with standard frames (or one set of contact
keratotomy, LASIK surgery, lenses) covered after each cataract surgery that implants an
and other low vision aids. intraocular lens.
• Routine eye exams: Our plan provides some coverage for routine
eye exams as described in the Medical Benefits Chart.
• Eyewear: Our plan provides some additional coverage for eyewear
as described in the Medical Benefits Chart.
Routine foot care
• Some limited coverage provided according to Medicare guidelines
(e.g., if you have diabetes).
Routine hearing exams,
hearing aids, or exams to fit • Routine hearing exams: Our plan provides some coverage for
hearing aids. routine hearing exams as described in the Medical Benefits Chart.
• Hearing aid fitting and evaluations: Our plan provides some
coverage for hearing aid fitting and evaluations as described in the
Medical Benefits Chart.
• Hearing aids: Our plan provides some coverage for hearing aids as
described in the Medical Benefits Chart.
Services considered not Not covered under any condition.
reasonable and necessary,
according to Original
Medicare standards
